<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="intro">
  <title>Introduction</title>

  <body>
    <p>This manual addresses the linguistic issues that arise in connection
    with annotating texts by part of speech ("tagging"). Section 2 is an
    alphabetical list of the parts of speech encoded in the annotation system
    of the Penn Treebank Project, along with their corresponding abbreviations
    ("tags") and some information concerning their definition. This section
    allows you to find an unfamiliar tag by looking up a familiar part of
    speech. Section 3 recapitulates the information in Section 2, but this
    time the information is alphabetically ordered by tags. This is the
    section to consult in order to find out what an unfamiliar tag means.
    Since the parts of speech are probably familiar to you from high school
    English, you should have little difficulty in assimilating the tags
    themselves. However, it is often quite difficult to decide which tag is
    appropriate in a particular context. The two sections 4 and 5 therefore
    include examples and guidelines on how to tag problematic cases. If you
    are uncertain about whether a given tag is correct or not, refer to these
    sections in order to ensure a consistently annotated text. Section 4
    discusses parts of speech that are easily confused and gives guidelines on
    how to tag such cases, while Section 5 contains an alphabetical list of
    specific problematic words and collocations. Finally, Section 6 discusses
    some general tagging conventions. One general rule, however, is so
    important that we state it here. Many texts are not models of good prose,
    and some contain outright errors and slips of the pen. Do not be tempted
    to correct a tag to what it would be if the text were correct; rather, it
    is the incorrect word that should be tagged correctly.</p>

    <note>If you have questions that you do not find covered, be sure to let
    us know so that we can incorporate a discussion of them into updates of
    this guide.</note>
  </body>
</topic>
