<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
"concept.dtd">
<concept id="poslist">
  <title>List of parts of speech with corresponding tag</title>

  <conbody>
    <section><title>Adjective—JJ</title><p>Hyphenated compounds that are used
    as modifiers are tagged as adjectives (JJ).</p><codeblock>happy-go-lucky/JJ
one-of-a-kind/JJ
run-of-the-mill/JJ</codeblock><p>Ordinal numbers are tagged as adjectives
    (JJ), as are compounds of the form <i>n-th X-est</i>, like
    <i>fourth-largest</i>.</p></section>

    <section><title>Adjective, comparative—JJR</title><p>Adjectives with the
    comparative ending <i>-er</i> and a comparative meaning are tagged JJR.
    <i>More</i> and <i>less</i> when used as adjectives, as in <i>more or less
    mail</i>, are also tagged as JJR. <i>More</i> and <i>less</i> can also be
    tagged as JJR when they occur by themselves; see the entries for these
    words in Section 5. Adjectives with a comparative meaning but without the
    comparative ending <i>-er</i>, like <i>superior</i>, should simply be
    tagged as JJ. Adjectives with the ending -er but without a strictly
    comparative meaning ("more X"), like <i>further</i> in <i>further
    details</i>, should also simply be tagged as JJ. </p></section>

    <section><title>Adjective, superlative—JJS</title><p>JJS Adjectives with
    the superlative ending <i>-est</i> (as well as <i>worst</i>) are tagged as
    JJS. <i>Most</i> and <i>least</i> when used as adjectives, as in <i>the
    most or the least mail</i>, are also tagged as JJS. <i>Most</i> and
    <i>least</i> can also be tagged as JJS when they occur by themselves; see
    the entries for these words in Section 5. Adjectives with a superlative
    meaning but without the superlative ending <i>-est</i>, like <i>first</i>,
    <i>last</i> or <i>unsurpassed</i>, should simply be tagged as JJ.
    </p></section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
